next up I'm very thrilled to introduce
Sherry Wong who is a turkish-american
artist working on AI governance she's
the founder of the Icarus salon and art
and research organization exploring the
ethics of emerging technology and in her
work she advocates for justice and Ai
and more active roles for artists and
policy making she has a fantastic CV
including residents at the Rockefeller
Foundation The burgrin Institute ours
Electronica and was even selected as one
of the 100 brilliant women in AI Ethics
in 2021 amongst many other honors uh
Sherry take the stage
thank you
I can't type my password in
here we go
foreign
caps lock
[Music]
so thank you Caroline um
thanks guys
today
[Music]
all right
also research
foreign
or the art that they produce I'm talking
just about the stories they're forming
around them that helps construct culture
so this first narrative we're looking at
is a narrative of expansion right so
you're seeing all these like headlines
coming up it's mainstream it's in the
New York Times
[Applause]
[Music]
the past couple of weeks we've seen the
story of competition rise that AI
created art replaces human creative art
take like the main software for example
Dolly from openai it's a simple framing
expansion from few to many the tool
named dolly evokes dolly the artist
Wally the robot but also Dolly the first
clone sheep these tools are trained on
our human-made images and although new
images are created they're kind of like
the result of our provenance of all that
training data all our own human images
these are headlines of tension caused by
training AI on images without consent
notably living fantasy illustrators are
being used in prompts way more often
than famous artists like Picasso a
common problem in like the AI ecosystem
are also stories of extraction of ghost
work those are workers who label the
data used by these tools or otherwise
they're laboring invisibly and they make
these systems kind of tick
extraction narratives are common in Ai
and crypto but of course they're really
common in art in life
democratization is probably what many of
these narratives boil down to expansion
democratization this little quote
picture Bots have put the stake through
the heart of the myth of the artist's
Shaman genius artists are no longer
intermediaries of imagination I'm kind
of using it out of context because the
Arthur right after he's like but but um
the premise here is that the big
narrative the myth of the individual the
unique artists it's been democratized
it's been distributed to others
everybody is an artist
so democratization as it's used in these
narratives means giving people more
access
expansion but like is it reality because
democratization is a buzzword and the
idea that we expand access through
crypto or AI tools is kind of made like
a positive trait they push an idea that
like my magic access is given to
everyone and it gives power to everyone
but this narrative is a fantasy
in reality emerging Technologies can
exist outside of democratic governance
this is a really common part of hype
Cycles in technology
accessibility doesn't mean Democratic or
Fair
one can easily imagine powerful
institutions defining different levels
of access
determining how these tools can be used
democracy is having a say and not
everyone gets to have an equal say and
how tools are used or whether or not
they should exist in the first place so
it's not democratization crypto for
example exists totally outside of
democratic laws sometimes right it has
its own systems it's got laws outside
the ones that we've chosen where we've
elected people it doesn't have
government oversight everywhere and in
AI the fact that you don't need to know
how to code to use AI to make art does
not redistribute power or allow anyone a
means of input on how these tools are
shaping our world
and then there's darker stories these
are stories of scale expansion these
tools are going to be scaling harm so
the tool makers like in so many other
stories of Technology once again claim
no accountability even if they are used
to harm others create this information
or propaganda they can sway elections or
cost lives right for example one of the
newest ones stable diffusions license
officially forbids like those kinds of
uses but the code and the weights are
already out there the founder Ahmad
mustak said in an interview with RS
Technica we believe in individual
responsibility and agency we included an
ethical use policy and tools to mitigate
them you can contrast this to concerns
from the community also referenced in
the same article backs to the Future
he says um you know throughout the
various stages of stable diffusion I
have received DMS and calls from people
who were concerned by the offensive and
horrific content they were seeing on the
stable diffusion official Discord server
photos of violently beaten Asian women
were the kinds of images people were
originally generating unstable diffusion
at a frequent scale this is even knowing
these results will be public for all to
see and associated with their Discord
usernames permanently many of these
people have told me they are still
disturbed by what they saw eventually I
believe with the help from moderators
stable diffusion cleaned it up most of
the disturbing or unethical images they
were seeing however I was now getting
additional messages about the inherent
biases of the model someone sent me a
screenshot where they had simply entered
the monkey emoji in stable diffusion and
got back photos of black children
was there any work at all put into bias
before releasing this model to the
public
here are some other stories of harm
we've seen the past few years this is
outside of the art World many deal with
issues of power they're the same issues
you know the growth of existing
inequality and some people have had the
ability to protest
[Music]
and decisions get changed if you are
able to protest
s but not everybody
has that ability
not everyone has that voice
sometimes the story gets inverted for
example many crypto narratives claim to
shift power cryptocurrencies may have
decentralization as a base how they
technically operate but if you look at
it power isn't really decentralized
similarly to democratization it's a
buzzword decentralization is used in The
Narrative to mean Distributing power
decentralizing power but again the
narratives make this magic
as if like decentralizing means Shifting
the power the word is being used as a
metaphor and this narrative is also a
fantasy for example until the Chinese
band half of all Bitcoin mining was
controlled by five companies so it
doesn't take a lot for big players in
the system to control who has access and
they control the market
and to reiterate I'm talking about the
stories around these tools I'm not
claiming that the tools themselves are
reductive and you can find many examples
where they are not they're really good
art you know as well and just by default
the tools themselves are generative so
not reductive they're generative tools
and artists are also breaking those
tools to expand their capacity for
creation but these narratives that hype
expansive properties they kind of go
counter to the reductive properties
they're exposed in the stories
so what does it mean to easily
proliferate images from our collected
history of image making and art using
prompts the stories around AI art tools
are absolutely dominated by reducing art
to just an image a decorative image a
style you can copy
and yeah we're producing kitchen bad art
scales previously unmatched by human
artists but you know something else is
going on here that's beyond the not too
surprising aesthetic of the early
adopter
the most dominant nft narrative is also
one that is reductive it places art as
something unique that you can collect
and buy and sell and not too
surprisingly emerging Technologies are
subject to the same problems that plague
the art World money laundering the
dependence of third parties to verify or
legitimize the value of one's art so
that's like museums and galleries or
platforms are needed or collectors are
needed to say that your art is worthy
and also the reduction of art as a
vehicle for Capital
so there's vibrant communities formed in
the nft sector amazing people but the
narratives of the nft landscape can't go
counter sometimes to what the artists
believe and hope for
so if we look at Art we have spent the
past 100 years or so pushing at the
boundaries of what art is found art
video performance basically we're trying
to push the shape of the bull that the
cats are in so we came up with
conceptual art
Arts the idea and a lot of these ideas
came about because artists were trying
to push away from the idea that art is
just the image or art is about the
commercialization of something and it's
really funny to me that the newest tools
of art are bringing us back to these
before times
so these are artworks I especially like
and they're centered around New York
City because like that's where I was
doing art but um conceptual art was all
over and these boundaries were pushed by
situationists in France Cobra and
Germany bhutai and Japan and there's so
many others and they all worked with
each other and they collaborated they
changed ideas and they changed art and
letters and mail art
so this work is an artwork by a fluxus
artist my favorite art movement it's the
mid-century art movement and he worked
with the idea that neither the art or
the artist was a unique and special
snowflake for Friedman art was not a
commodity or a collectible
but it's not simply negating the
narratives of contemporary Tech that I
just talked about because similarly to
text to image tools Friedman's art took
place in a space that does not belong to
the artist typing the sentence the art
is not the sentence or the prompt it is
this other thing between the prompt and
your eyes it relates directly to Art
being produced by AI you know but then
what is the art created by props is it a
conceptual thing perhaps this generative
creation coming from the training data
is the art
so I'm going to give a prop now
let's talk into the whole room
lately in the past few months I felt a
lot of sadness
things seem a lot harder and people are
really quick to fall apart I don't know
if other people have kind of know this
there's this this thing it's like a
collective processing not only for our
past but it seems like it might be about
our future it's not just grief there's a
lot going on in the world and it's a lot
so I'd like everyone to take a minute
and hold a moment of silence for
whatever you need to hold a moment of
silence for
all right thank you so that was a empty
space and we
filled it collectively it was a
relationship between us we can think of
it as an art piece that we co-created
his purpose and meaning was unique to
every single person showing up in that
void was our own experience our
realities unbounded by technology or
language and even the choice not to show
up to wait to be bored to be cynical
there's Limitless possibilities right
there
but technology like language is really
limited the limits of Technology are not
about progress or innovation bounded
only by how much funding it has or the
laws of physics and hopefully ethics we
can explore the limits of its conceptual
boundaries too
language can be considered a kind of
technology and many artists view art as
technology or art as language language
is a container it's bull language is how
we describe phenomenon and things in the
world but it's not the things or the
phenomenon
those things are cats
these language Tech art things are the
Bulls you put the cats in
Stoner talk
got it so hey this is where he is okay
come along with me for this one so this
is a photograph by the artist Francis
reuter one of my mentors the words are
are what he used when he was sharing it
on social media it's a close-up photo of
an installation which was a tent that
was played out on a wall so the brush is
on the canvas this orange canvas the
canvas is Art so
it's also a tent therefore it's also the
bull
and the wall is the wall of a gallery so
it's also kind of a tent or a bowl for
the art that's in it so they're both
holding things right and the gallery
wall is our reality the space in which
Art's occurring and those things are in
relationship because look the canvas is
reflecting on the walls white surface
and the White surface is casting light
on the canvas and the brush it has the
shadow on the canvas and on the wall and
the paintbrush here is like the in
between where everything is
interdependent interacting with each
other and this Photograph right now is
being transmitted to you and my words
are right now being transmitted to you
so it's another kind of layer
so francis's photo is dealing with
themes and conceptual elements of his
own work but I'm also bringing in my own
universe and it reminds me of this
Buddhist metaphor
andresnet right so in the realm of the
god Indra
there is this vast net you picture like
a spider web and each individual thread
of the net is a shiny Jewel each Jewel
reflects every other Jewel in there it's
infinite in number and all the jewels
show images of the others and so on for
infinity and whatever happens in one
shows up in the others so in Buddhism
that's the ultimate nature of reality
that phenomena Co arise and all things
are within all other things
so our art and narratives are really
important we make them and they make us
and there is a reflective relationship
or as a Buddhist teacher take not Hong
would say there's inter-being we are
enter are
so what do we do with that
art can address the needs of our time it
can start a process of healing or it can
give us a reason to survive
we do not need AI tools to enable anyone
to make art everyone already is an
artist and life is art as long as you
recognize that's true it becomes true we
are empty of a separate existence is a
good time to assess where there is
Divergence with our needs and our
stories and what narratives we want
reflecting back to us
all right thank you
[Applause]
Cat videos one's over